I'm gonna start with two really short
anecdotes that have seemingly nothing to
do with what I'm talking about but I
think you'll see the salience in just a
moment I remember I saw a documentary
about a jazz musician and at one point
this jazz musician got fired and the
person telling the anecdote to the
documentary filmmaker he said that he
had gone and complained to the
management of this nightclub whatever it
was and said you know how can you how
could you fire this guy he's a genius
you know he's musical genius and the
manager replied we don't need a genius
we need someone who shows up on time
isn't drunk isn't high on drugs does a
good job gets along with the other staff
you know the series of kind of mediocre
requirements for what adequacy meant you
know in this context for being a good
jazz musician you know genius is nice
when you can get it but the other things
may not be negotiable those may be hard
requirements there was a movie I saw
only only bits and pieces of I didn't
watch the whole movie when I was a kid I
think my sister was watching the movie
and I just saw a few scenes from it and
there's a fellow that gets fired in the
movie from a TV repair shop and his
father goes to talk to the boss his
father says you know how could you how
could you fire my son jack he's an
electronics genius and the guy who runs
the shop looks in the iron flies we
don't need a genius we need someone who
can fix broken TV you know that that
scene really stayed with me if you've
been watching this channel for a while
you've heard me many times refer to the
somewhat mediocre down-to-earth reality
of what politics is like at City Hall
including my own experience with you
know municipal politics City Hall in
Toronto now there's a sense in which you
know
anyone can complain why aren't we
talking about more inspirational ideas
from the history of political philosophy
why aren't we talking about genius why
aren't we talking about matters of great
passion whether from art or protest
movements why aren't we talking about
the the shocking and the bizarre why do
we have to talk about the mediocre
down-to-earth details of how political
movements get organized how social
change actually happens I think that one
of the differences between me and most
members of my generation is that I don't
think of the main theater of political
change as Street protests I don't think
of it as the arts either you know of
painting some inspirational work of art
that supposedly changes the world I do
think of that mediocre bureaucratic
reality Democratic reality too but
democracy and bureaucracy are always
intertwined I think about laws and
Parliament's and lobbyists and
constituencies and community activists
and you know the long cycles of public
education militating for social change
and you guys have heard me mention a
million examples of this whether it's
cigarette smoking or drunk driving you
know none of these are yeah none of
these have to do with genius or you know
extraordinary people with extraordinary
minds making dramatic breakthroughs
there's this there's this really kind of
down to earth tone that I bring the
whole question of a vegan politics and
its really has to do with my assumption
even about what the word politics means
and what the long term horizon for
veganism is now in looking back at the
videos on this channel I think it's
interesting that so many of the the
movements I've criticized are at the
opposite extreme and they have that in
common there are several videos on this
channel
criticizing Gary Yourofsky if you're new
to the channel search for urops key and
I think there are three videos offering
substantive critique of Gary Yourofsky
why disagree with him about the use of
violence but a number of other issues
that I still think are important I still
think are really worth
thinking about Gary Yourofsky has in
common with many of the other movements
of Krishna he has in common with for
instance direct action everywhere again
I have several videos substantive
critique irritation if we're this idea
that if we just want it badly enough if
we're just passionate enough if we're
you know if we just show enough raw
emotion then this social change is gonna
happen and many people who believe in
the kind of street theater of protest
politics they also think in those terms
if only we can get people on the street
corners weeping and screaming doing
something very dramatic show me a great
deal emotion that will bring about
political and social change and it never
does I think that shows a real
misconception with politics and on the
Contras have pointed out instead you get
Gary Yourofsky looking like a nutcase
and making all of us vegans look like in
that case he is sitting there in front
of a TV camera on the news saying
unbelievable things about the use of
violence and how he wants to torture and
kill rapists and you know and you know
he it's an intentional decision on his
part to show this over-the-top emotion
this tremendous passion and again many
of the street protest groups are like
that to where they really think that
it's passion that's gonna change the
course of history that it can't possibly
be the presentation of facts in a boring
meeting at City Hall it can't be a set
of negotiations with politicians it
can't be the drafting of legislation
that no it's the the agony of you know
passionate people pouring out their
hearts whether in the street protests or
in a work of art or you know on
videotape that that is is gonna change
the world
you know I remember I had a job it was a
period of my life right a bunch of
short-term jobs just before I moved to
Asia and I remember I had a job once and
my mother said to me one day when I had
this job she said well you know I'm sure
you're gonna do you know the best you
can eat with this job and I remember I
said he was completely honest answer I
said no I'm gonna do as much work as is
appropriate for the job I'm gonna do
I'm gonna complete the assignment I'm
not gonna do the best I can the best I
can is much more is a much higher status
I could possibly do with this assigned
work for this job that would be on a
whole nother level but that's actually
not appropriate like this job is not
calling for a great work of literature
or great work of genius
this job required me to write some
reports to do some paperwork would have
you and actually it's not appropriate
for that to be brilliant or maybe or
even to do a ton of research for it or
what have you remember that job you know
was what it was um you had a certain
amount of work to do turn it into the
deadline you know nobody nobody wants it
to be ten pages longer than it needs to
be but it's what it is I remember my mom
she really couldn't accept that she
could not understand at all what I meant
and she became extremely agitated and
freaked out and even though it didn't
involve her she demanded to see what I
was doing like the the work I was doing
the written work I was bracing job and
again I thought she might learn the
lesson from I did show her you know when
I'd finished that that task that report
said this is what I turned in and she
actually she thought it was great she
thought I'd done an excellent job she
said oh well this is this is fantastic
you did a great job that's she said so
why did you say that before you know it
doesn't make any sense
I just tried to repeat her I said no you
know there's a question of doing what's
appropriate what's effective of doing
what the job calls for that's different
from doing the best you can or doing the
post you can those are just two
completely different things and there's
a difference between something being my
personal passion and me pouring my heart
into it
and me doing what's appropriate and
effective so I mean you know my own
involvement with City Hall is a pretty
short time in my life compared to my
involvement with Cambodia or my
involvement with Thailand or even my
involved with politics of China you know
the number of hours and the number of
years I spent going to City Hall to try
to address ecological problems is
different but for me in many ways the
draft nests of City Hall the bureaucracy
they are the type of democracy that
exists there that shapes my idea of what
real politics is as opposed to you know
revolution in Cambodia which we can also
talk about I know a lot about what
happened in Cambodia's Revolution and in
a sense of course that's real politics
too but it's not it is not what I'm
recommending vegans do to change the
world you know know when you stand up at
City Hall
and give a deposition there's a question
of doing what's adequate and effective
nobody wants you to be a genius at City
Hall nobody wants you to turn in a 200
page report that reflects brilliance and
genius and a ton of original research
you know if you can put turn in a
two-page report
maybe they'll read it you can give a
deposition that's concise factual
effective that addresses the problems
you can influence what happens at City
Hall even just completely alone with no
money to back you up with no lobbyists
to back you up with no good stitches you
can especially if you're if you're
bringing them useful information and
giving it to them in a way that can
really influence policy outcomes and
I've seen that happen many times with
other people and you know to some extent
I managed to do it myself
but I mean I remember there was one guy
he was actually a university professor
born and raised in Italy and he was
making it his crusade to attempt to show
up in some city hall meetings it's had
to do with ecology I do with water
pollution and to point out to them that
the city was lying to itself they were
publishing fake charts fake statistics
intentionally misleading you know graphs
concerning water pollution and the
decisions that were being made about
wastewater treatment and drinking one of
these kinds of things they you know my
heart goes out to me was a completely
sincere example of someone just trying
to do the right thing for the right
reasons but again on a deep level this
is so different from the weeping and
wailing and screaming on the street
corner that so many vegans imagined
defines real politics this guy had to
have the humility to take some time out
of his day to do a little bit of
research to come to City Hall to stand
up at a podium you know maybe as a slide
show he has an illustration and say look
I understand you guys are making these
decisions that impact ecology and
pollution I've read your report I have
some level of expertise here are the
errors in the report I need you guys to
know you're making the wrong decision
for the wrong reasons because there are
false facts in this report to me that's
that's real politics you know and anyone
in veganism got the issue of water
pollution is so huge most vegans have
seen this movie conspiracy if you can
devote the time and expertise to doing
water samples from one river and to
following up legally then the
consequence of that the sources of
pollution and the connection to the meat
industry and to work with government and
the public and the people and to
militate for legal change enforcement of
regulations public awareness you know I
remember I again to mention my own
mother I mean I used to say to her about
her own decisions that were ecologically
responsible she didn't he didn't give a
damn you know when she was wasting
whatever electricity but she was doing
things that work that were terrible for
the environment I remember I say to her
you know um can you put the stars back
in the sky because at that time I hear
our pollution has gotten better in
Toronto since at that time in Toronto
I'd say look it's been years since I've
seen stars in the sky at night the
combination of air pollution and light
pollution you know you you could not see
the stars at night in Toronto anymore
large parts of China are like that of
course now you can't see the stars due
to due to air pollution to make people
aware on the level of public education
cultural change that these these
decisions whether it's eating meat or
legislation at the government level
these are linked to real consequences in
the water and the air in our health in
all our lives they're linked to of
course ethical consequences in terms the
suffering of animals to make those
connections of people and to do it
through real politics that's something
nobody is ever gonna regard as heroic
nobody's gonna regard it as dramatic and
nobody's gonna regard it as genius in a
sense that's why I'm asking you to take
it seriously and to regard that with
some real hope for the future any
political movement that requires genius
is doomed to failure and I think you
the great thing about veganism is that a
bunch of idiots can get together and
make the world a better place and this
whole crazy controversy yeah all the
controversies whether is my conflict
with the radiation everywhere or Gary
Yourofsky or these you know diet gurus
who threatened to you know beat me up
and have me arrested who threatened me
with violence who defamed me etc what is
it what does it illustrate I mean who
are the early adopters of veganism we
have such a strange mixed group of
people but if we can get over this
paradigm of imagining that we're gonna
change the world just because we want it
just because we're willing to scream
about it and weep about it just because
we're going to throw a tantrum about how
upset we are that a restaurant serves
foie gras or that people are still
wearing fur on the streets I mean the
psychology of that to me I think it can
properly be called infantile it is
childish it is infant like because you
think that if you scream and you weep
and you wail if you're just passionate
about enough you just upset enough then
someone in the position of a parents a
parental authority someone is gonna give
you what you want like a child that
screams until somebody gives it a
chocolate bar that if we just all lose
our tempers if we just all act crazy
enough and show enough passion then the
parental authorities of the world will
you know nod their heads gravely and
hand us the chocolate bar we're asking
for just so that we stop crying social
change doesn't happen that way not
short-term not long-term and you know
still I got love for you guys you know I
sympathize I sympathize with the whole
range I sympathize with the crazy cat
ladies who send me hate mail saying that
they love their cats so much that
there's no it's no problem that they
kill cows to give their cats cat food
made of dead cows all the way over to I
mean you know all the all the crazy
eccentrics we've put together you know
this this mess that we call a social
movement and it's not yet a social
movement I hope it will be someday I
hope we get organized you know I still
sympathize with you guys
even even the people who hate me the
people who hate me so intensely
I regard you as people who've sat down
and have all the puzzle pieces laid out
at the table but you haven't put them
together in the right way yet and you
know it's gonna happen here they're
everywhere people are gonna figure out
that what we've been obsessed with in
veganism our short-term fads whether
it's a fad diet or chasing after
celebrity that gossip or what-have-you
and none of that matters even the street
protests it's short-term and I'm sorry I
mean people want to reinterpret history
as if it's the the street protests that
make the difference and it's not street
protests did not end the Vietnam War
Street protests did not lead to black
people having equality I mean you know
you want to look at what actually
happened after the assassination of JFK
who actually passed the laws that made a
difference on the other hand look at
look at the laws that made life so
miserable for black people after World
War two so called redlining you know the
the creation of black ghettos legally
how that really happened in United
States of America a lot of it happened
it's it the City Hall level some of it
crucially happened at the level the
president United States but yes you know
what there are men wearing suspenders
and blue ties who are sitting in dark
rooms you know at the crux of where
democracy meets bureaucracy there are
you know people who pass laws there are
people who make decisions and if you
live in a democratic government you do
have the opportunity to have your voice
heard you do have the opportunity to get
organized and to militate for legal
change for cultural change for social
change you can make a difference but in
many ways in the last five years we've
all been looking in the wrong place to
make that change